do you feel like you're Shadow banned on
Instagram like no matter what you do
your posts aren't getting any views and
you're just not growing your account
well today I want to help you get to the
bottom of this figure out if you
actually are Shadow band and more
importantly how do you fix it or what do
you do
now hey there my name is Brock Johnson
it's my job to help you grow on
Instagram I've personally grown my
account by over 600,000 followers over
the last few years and I've helped
hundreds of our students do the same and
while I may have a large account myself
I've also started numerous new accounts
this year so I know what it's like to
have less than a th000 followers in 2023
and I also know what it's like to see a
sudden drop off in views or to feel like
you're just banging your head against
the wall with Instagram just not being
able to reach anyone and not getting any
actual return on your Instagram
investment so let's start with the
basics what is a shadow band and it's
really important to understand this
definition in order to move forward in
this conversation the term Shadow band
generally refers to when a social media
platform intentionally limits the views
or exposure of an account or that
accounts posts without disclosing this
ban or this decrease in views to the
account owner and there's really two key
criteria here number one it's an
intentional ban by the platform that
means that it's essentially the platform
working against you or working against
the kinds of posts that you are sharing
the second key point and this is one
that a lot of people Miss is that it's
an undisclosed ban and we're going to
get into all of the details in just a
second but often times I receive
concerned messages from people
screenshotting that one of their posts
was removed or one of their comments was
flagged as an inappropriate comment and
they're claiming that that is a shadow
ban by definition that is a disclosed
ban so it's not a shadow ban it might be
a ban it might be a decrease in views
But ultimately when you sign up for the
platform you agree to abide by their
Community guidelines and so if you
violate their guidelines whether
intentional or not whether you actually
did or whether it was just an accidental
report that somehow made its way through
an Instagram claim you violated their
guidelines none of that really matters
all that matters is that if you violate
their guidelines and then they let you
know hey you violated our guidelines we
had to take down this post we had to
remove this comment whatever it may be
well then that ban is not a shadow ban
that is just Instagram working how
Instagram told you they were going to
work if you violate their guidelines you
will not be shown to as many people if
that does apply to you and you're
someone who's watching this video
because you already know that you've had
a post taken down or you've had content
removed and that is what's causing your
decrease in views don't worry at the end
of this video we're going to talk about
how to fix the shadow band and get your
account trending in the right direction
if you're someone however who hasn't had
this happen you've had nothing removed
you've had no violations not nothing
that you're aware of Instagram hasn't
sent you a message saying that you broke
their rules or anything like that but
you're still feeling like there was this
sudden intentional and undisclosed
throttling or ban on your account or
your content let's talk about what may
have caused that and how you can fix it
so what should you avoid or what may
cause a shadow Auto ban on Instagram
first and foremost having any sort of
content removed whether it's an entire
post a comment a caption a story
anything like that if you have a post
removed it's likely that your future
posts will be seen to less people and
again like I said earlier it doesn't
really matter to Instagram whether or
not it was intentional and it doesn't
matter to Instagram really whether or
not you even did it oftentimes people
will get accidentally reported people
will get reported by haters or people
will say a word not meaning it the way
Instagram and the algorithm is going to
take it and you end up having a post
removed for it for example I could make
a post saying here are the 10 things
that are killing your Instagram account
and that word killing even though it's
metaphorically being used it's still a
word that Instagram isn't a big fan of
and so I'm in Jeopardy if I use that
word on Instagram of having my post
taken down Instagram's Community
guidelines are very lengthy and they
spell out just about everything that you
should avoid doing avoid talking about
avoid posting about on their platform
and if you think you're borderline if
you're like I do kind of talk about some
borderline topics then I would recommend
reading the community guidelines but for
most people what I would say is you're
probably not going to cross that
threshold you're probably not going to
cross any boundaries if you aren't aware
of it like for the most part as long as
you're avoiding the things that you
wouldn't use in like a casual
conversation with someone new who you're
meeting on the street then you're
probably not going to get reported or
have your content taken down for
violating Community guidelines also I
should say that with over 1 billion
users Instagram is by no way universally
fair or just in who they report I know
people who use the word kill on
Instagram and they're totally fine I
know people who use the word kill one
time and their post was taken down and
their account has never recovered since
I know people with hundreds of thousands
of followers who talk about some very
political content some very far one way
or the other content and they're totally
fine and also I should say both ends of
the spectrum I know people who are far
right who are crushing it on Instagram
people who are farle crushing it on
Instagram and I know people who barely
straight from the median they barely
post things that are slightly political
or slightly controversial and yet their
posts are flagged or taken down I think
we can chalk that up to Instagram being
a very faulty system the algorithms
being very far from perfect and with
over 1 billion users and millions and
millions of new posts being shared every
day there's likely going to be some
glitches and malfunctions along the way
but don't you worry when I'm talking
about the fixes and the solutions
towards the end of this episode I'll
share with you some ways that you can
check if you have violated any
guidelines and what you can do if you
have been wrongfully reported or if any
of your posts have been wrongfully
flagged speaking of polarizing political
issues that is another thing that I
would recommend avoiding on Instagram
now of course there are some accounts
that can get away with this there are
others that can't but generally speaking
let's just think about your average
follower let's say you follow me on
Instagram you follow me for Instagram
growth tips and then suddenly one day I
make some polarizing post it doesn't
matter which end of the spectrum I'm on
if I'm suddenly making a polarizing post
then by definition let's say it's a
super political post sharing my opinion
and has nothing to do with my Niche well
then by definition half of my followers
are going to be like no way I hate this
I'm unfollowing this guy I'm blocking
this guy I'm leaving a nasty comment and
the algorithm doesn't like any of those
things and the other half might engage
and they might like it but even some of
the other half who might agree with me
they might feel too scared to like it or
too scared to publicly engage with that
post and so generally speaking that's
why I recommend steering clear of any
sort of political or polarizing issues
especially if it's an issue that doesn't
have significant meaning to yourself or
doesn't have a direct correlation or
relation to your Instagram account and
what you do also I should say that my
goal with this episode is to present you
with the facts and the solutions around
a shadowband I know there are lots of
opinions that you likely have and I have
my own opinions myself but it's not very
helpful for me in this episode if I'm
sharing my opinions about what's right
what's wrong what is free speech what is
what should be allowed on Instagram what
shouldn't be allowed that doesn't really
help you at all so instead I'm going to
focus on the facts I'm going to focus on
what is allowed on Instagram and what
isn't leave the judgments for yourself
if you want to share your judgments go
ahead and put them in the comments but
I'm going to try to steer clear of
including any opinions in this episode
cuz that's not helpful for you the third
thing that you should avoid doing on
Instagram is using banned hashtags now I
wish I could provide you with a
comprehensive list and unfortunately one
does not exist Instagram doesn't even
put out their own comprehensive list
list of hashtags I think there are
plenty that are pretty self-explanatory
like if you're using offensive language
or uh having a hashtag that's
inappropriate in some way of course
that's probably going to be banned but
there are some that you might not even
realize are banned like I'm pretty sure
the last time I checked # Valentine's
Day is a banned hashtag on Instagram and
usually these hashtags are banned not
necessarily because Instagram is anti
Valentine's Day but because those
hashtags have become overrun with
certain kinds of content if you know
what I'm saying saying and so Instagram
will just kind of shut down those
hashtags to stop giving that kind of
content a platform for distribution so
if you are a chronic hashtag user if
you're someone who's constantly using
lots of hashtags on all of your posts
then I would recommend doing two things
number one Google and look for the most
recent list of banned hashtags again
you're not likely going to find a
comprehensive list with every single
hashtag that's ever been banned but you
should get a general idea of if those
hashtags or if one of the hashtags that
you're using has been banned and another
great op is to just search for those
hashtags if you want to use # beginner
rock climbing tip on your post just do a
quick search in the Instagram search bar
see if you can find results for that
hashtag if you can and if there are lots
of other recent posts within that
hashtag it's probably not banned and
also I should say that using a banned
hashtag isn't necessarily going to get
your post taken down it's not
necessarily going to be a community
guideline violation or get you Shadow
banned but it definitely doesn't help
the third thing that will definitely get
your content removed if not your entire
account is copyright violations
especially multiple and I should say
that with all of these things if you do
it once you might be fine you might not
get caught if you do get caught it might
be a minor slap on the wrist but the
more times you do these things the more
they happen the more they occur on your
account not only is Instagram going to
be on the lookout for your account like
if you have a post taken down
Instagram's going to have a magnifying
glass on your account with all your
future posts but also having repetitive
violations stacked on top of each other
increases your likelihood of having
decreased views and reach but again
copyright violations or account
impersonation I mean you just shouldn't
be doing that at all these are things
that are big no NOS these are Big
negative some of these things are
illegal like in the court of law
copyright violations but also most of
these things are things that you're
probably already avoiding like you're
not just stealing people's content
you're not just illegally pirating
movies for your Instagram account you're
not impersonating someone else on your
Instagram account steer clear of these
things which you probably already are
but it is important to note also around
this topic of cop copyright violation
often times business accounts are more
likely to get flagged for copyright
violation when using music on Instagram
because to think about things from a
legal perspective essentially if
Instagram is allowing any business
profile to use any music that they want
royalty free then it's kind of like
Instagram is allowing businesses to
promote grow their business run ads with
music which is technically copyright
violation so what Instagram has kind of
done and they've never explicitly said
this but I'm pretty sure this is their
own little wink wink to all of us is
that if you switch from a business
account to a Creator account you should
get access to the full Creator Library
you should get access to the full music
library and then you can use any song
you want your business can still be run
on Instagram it can still be a you know
business profile that you're running for
your brand it's just that in the
settings you're technically calling
yourself a Creator and so you're using
this music creatively rather than using
it for your business another huge noo
that can get you in trouble with
Instagram is overactivity hyper use of
Instagram and again this is something
that they don't give explicit guidelines
for and this one I very much understand
why they don't give us guidelines like
if they said hey you can't comment more
than 100 times a minute then every
single bot service would just set their
limit at 99 per minute and then they'd
be fine so I understand why Instagram
doesn't give us clear guidelines here
but generally speaking if you're not
using any sort of bots or automation
with your profile you're probably not
going to be in Jeopardy of overuse now
if you search #fitness and you're just
scrolling through and double tapping as
fast as you can on every single post
then you might get a warning it might
just be something as simple as whoa you
need to slow down you've got some
overactivity we're not going to allow
you to like any post for the next hour
but with each sequential violation you
will be banned for a longer and longer
period of time again though unless
you're doing something that's super
inorganic super inauthentic like you
know just liking every single post you
see or pressing copy and pasting and
sending hundreds of messages a minute
then you're probably going to be be fine
and you're not going to overuse
Instagram with that being said though
there are two common ways that I have
seen that people can accidentally
overuse Instagram and one of these I
even fell into myself the first one is
using DM automation but I should say
using it in the wrong way or rather
using it in a way that's not being
thoughtful about what's going to happen
and let me explain DM automation when it
is through an officially approved
partner such as many chat is totally
legal on Instagram you've got the green
light to do that I use many chat on a
lot of my posts and for those of you who
don't know we've done entire other
episodes about what is many chat what is
DM automation but essentially someone
can comment let's say the word pineapple
on one of my posts and then they'll
automatically and instantly receive a
direct message it doesn't matter how
many people comment or how fast those
messages will be sent and because it's
through an officially approved partner
it's an officially approved service I
won't get flagged for that I won't get
in trouble but one thing that I have
noticed is that when I am using using
that we'll use the exact same example
someone comments pineapple and I
automatically send them a DM I can also
add a little setting I can add a little
feature where not only do they get a DM
response they also get a comment
response so my automation is replying to
their comment and then sending them a DM
that is one thing that I've noticed can
get you in Jeopardy of too many comments
on Instagram or just too much activity
in general so let me give you an example
let's say I am promoting something like
this podcast today and I'm saying hey if
you want the link just comment the word
pineapple and then I turn on the feature
where they get a comment and a DM if I
get let's say 50 comments in the first
minute all of a sudden my account is
sending 50 comment replies in that
minute and 50 DMS in that minute and so
I have been flagged for that in the past
and most recently I actually couldn't
send a direct message for an entire week
because of that violation so it's kind
of a good problem to have it means
you're getting a lot of comments but
it's just something to be aware of again
General best practice when using DM
automation if you plan on receiving a
lot of comments if you think this is a
post that's going to do well and
generate a high volume of comments with
the trigger keyword then I would not
recommend turning on the comment
response the other common mistake that I
briefly mentioned a minute ago that a
lot of people can fall into is copy and
paste responses and this also for me
happened because of a mixup with DM
automation so I was going to have DM
automation turned on on a post so that
people could comment the word pineapple
and get an automatic response but I
forgot I forgot to turn on the
automation so I had a bunch of people
commenting the word pineapple but
nothing was happening they weren't
getting the link that they asked for so
I was like I'll just go in and manually
send it to them right I'll just copy and
paste the same message they all wanted
the same link anyway so I'll just copy
and paste and send it to them and
that'll make up for all the people who
the DM automation missed when I forgot
to turn it on and that was a big no no
because Instagram is not a fan of you
sending copy and paste messages the same
message over and over again to dozens of
people so generally speaking if you are
going to be doing such a thing if let's
say you don't use DM Automation and
people are commenting pineapple and you
want to send them the link just space it
out or at least change up the messages a
little bit from person to person so that
Instagram doesn't think you're just
blindly Mass sending a bunch of DMS at
once the sixth and final big no no that
could get your account in Jeopardy could
get your post taken down could get your
entire account removed is and this one
should be obvious buying followers
paying for shout outs paying for
engagement or follow unfollow which is
where you're basically following a bunch
of people waiting for them to follow you
back and then unfollowing them any sort
of those super spammy behaviors
hopefully you've left those in 2012 but
if you are still doing those absolutely
avoid those those can be huge negatives
for your account all right now with all
of that out of the way those are the
potential causes of a shadow ban or of
account violations let's talk about some
things that many people believe are a
shadow ban but in fact they're not
number one low engagement in just a
second I'm going to tell you exactly
what the average engagement rate is on
Instagram and I think that there's just
this big misconception that you should
be reaching the majority of your
followers and while that may have been
the case 10 years ago that's just not
the case anymore if you have 1,000
followers on Instagram you are rarely if
ever going to be reaching 1,000 people
with every single post almost every
single day I receive a DM saying Brock
help I think I've been shadowbanned what
do I do and I'll quickly take a look at
their profile and I'll see that their
engagement rate is actually pretty good
if not above average and so it's
important to understand that even though
it might feel deflating to have a th000
followers but to only get 25 likes
that's actually pretty average and so
while low engagement can be an
indication of an account violation or
even a shadow ban generally speaking low
engagement in and of itself does not
necessarily immediately and directly
equate to one of those problems another
common thing that I hear that doesn't
necessarily mean a shadowban is that
people can't find you in search even
when they're directly typing in your
username or your Instagram handle they
still can't find you in search again
Instagram has billions of users
Instagram has so many glitches in
malfunctions so most likely When I See
This occurring it is because of a glitch
or a malfunction now I will say there
are some exceptions there are some
people and it's usually the people with
tens of millions hundreds of millions of
followers the big-time celebrities or
influencers who Instagram will
intentionally Target and intentionally
decrease that person's visibility with
ins search I do think that that is a
rare example of a shadow band but for
most of us with a couple hundred maybe
even a couple thousand followers
Instagram doesn't really care we're not
even on Instagram's radar on like a meta
level pun not intended and so the reason
you're not showing up in the search
results could be a problem of SEO it
could be a glitch within Instagram or
like I talked about earlier it could be
because you had an account violation or
a Content violation and so Instagram is
like hey let's make sure less people are
finding this person because this person
is sharing some sketchy stuff another
Super common symptom that many people
think is an indication of a shadow band
is not showing up within the hashtags
they use I even had someone who recently
messaged me and they said hey Brock I
think I've been shadowbanned I used
hashtag balone square or something
random something super small as a
hashtag on one of my posts but when I
looked at that hashtag I can't see my
post it's not showing up do you think
I've been shadowbanned and I said no I
don't think you have and there's
actually a few reasons for that number
one Instagram is not very likely to show
you your own posts within a hashtag of
course it's not a 100% Universal thing
sometimes you will be able to find your
own content within hashtags that you've
used but generally speaking Instagram
isn't going to show you your own post
within a hashtag because you don't need
to find your own post within a hashtag
you already posted it you already can
find it but even bigger than that
Instagram has actually changed the way
hashtags work and you used to be able to
search a hashtag and see the top posts
within that hashtag and the most recent
posts within that hashtag but that's
been changed they got rid of the recent
category so it used to be if you went to
hasht Fitness and tapped on the recents
tab you would see every single post ever
that has used hasht fitness and it was
put in Reverse chronological order so
the most recent posts were right there
at the top but Instagram got rid of that
entire section so now you're only seeing
the top posts so of course people aren't
going to see your posts of course you're
not going to be able to find your post
within the hashtag because it's probably
just not a top post it's probably just
not ranking as one of the best posts
within that hashtag and to go back to
the original example of #t balone
squared when you're using those super
duper small hashtags oftentimes there
isn't enough competition there isn't a
high enough volume of people using those
hashtags for Instagram to generate top
posts or for Instagram to even show you
the posts that are using that hashtag
often times when you search a really
small hashtag like that you will see a
little tiny disclaimer that says fewer
than 100 posts and then you won't even
see any of the 100 posts you won't see
any of the posts that have used that
hashtag so again I don't think that this
is necessarily the best way to determine
if your account is in Jeopardy or if
you're Shadow Bann another really common
concern that doesn't necessarily
indicate a shadow ban or an account
violation is low engagement following a
viral post let me briefly explain to you
what is happening you had a post that
went viral it's reaching two three four
times maybe a 100 times more people than
your posts usually make that post is
getting way more engagement way more
views way more likes what ever any post
you make after that in the following few
days is likely going to get
significantly less reach because when
someone who follows you opens up
Instagram they are going to be showing
your viral post before anything else
even if your viral post is two or three
days old because the algorithm has
determined that this viral post is
really good people really like it people
are really engaging and so we should
show this to more people that's what the
algorithm is thinking and so if I follow
you and you made a viral post three days
ago the first post I'm going to see is
that Viral post and the likelihood that
I see anything you've posted since then
goes down now does this mean that you
should stop posting when you have a
viral post no I don't think so but it
does mean that you should accept that
when you have a post go viral the next
few are likely going to perform worse
than average or even worse than you
would expect them to because everyone's
just being shown the viral post and
they're missing the more recent content
now I told you I was going to break down
engagement rates on Instagram and these
might blow your mind but they should
hopefully make you feel a little bit
better about your content and a little
better about your account because by far
the number one reason that people
believe they are shadowbanned or that
their account is in Jeopardy is because
of low engagement or at least what they
perceive is low engagement but when we
look at the averages across Instagram as
a whole they're actually pretty average
or even above average the first stat
that I want to give you comes from later
and they recently came out with a report
where they summarize the average
engagement rate by follower account and
let me briefly explain to you what does
that mean basically add up the number of
engagements on a post so the number of
likes comments saves shares that sort of
thing and then divide that by the total
number of followers that you have so
simple math if you got eight likes on a
post and you got no comments no saves no
shares and you have 100 followers then
your engagement rate for that post was
8% now according to the study by later
the average engagement rate across
Instagram as a whole is
2.88% less than 3% that's the average
Instagram engagement rate so that means
if you have approximately a th000
followers on Instagram you should expect
30 engagements on each post that means
you know 25 likes three saves and two
comments that would equal 30 total
engagements and that would give you a 3%
engagement rate which again like I just
said would actually be slightly above
average I will link up that study down
in the show notes below this episode but
also another great study that I've been
loving recently came from metrol and
they studied over 300,000 instr stagram
accounts over 1 million reals and over 2
million posts and here's the data that
they found if you have less than 500
followers in 2023 you can expect
288 views on your real if you have
between 500 and 2,000 followers in 2023
then you can expect about 750 views on
each reel if you have between 2,000 and
10,000 followers on Instagram then you
can expect about 1,700 views on each
reel if you have between 10,000 and 50
,000 followers on Instagram then you can
expect 6,200 views on each real and it's
important to note that that's a pretty
big span right because someone with
50,000 followers getting 6,000 views
might not be very happy about that but
someone with 10,000 followers who gets
6,000 views might be you know a little
bit excited because that's a much bigger
percentage so again it varies depending
on your account size but those are the
general averages and then if you have
more than 50,000 followers on Instagram
the average views per real is about
47,000 views but I should note that
again the window is very big because
it's 50,000 they looked at one account
in the study that had as many as 45
million followers so of course the
account with 45 million followers is
likely throwing off the data but if you
have above 50,000 followers you're
likely getting less than 50,000 views
probably even less than 25,000 views
again though those are averages so if
you have a few posts that are below
those numbers a few posts that are above
those numbers then you're pretty much
par for the course and you're definitely
not Shadow ban and again I hope you
found this encouraging but I also
understand that it can suck to hear this
it can suck to hear that also from this
study from metrol they found that the
average reel in 20123 is reaching 76%
less people 76% less views than it was
in 2022 that's a massive drop off and
it's not like Instagram shadowbanned
every single one of its users that would
be a really bad business plan that would
be a really bad business model I know
some people will say well Brock they
want you to then pay for the views they
want you to buy engagement that wouldn't
last very long and I think Instagram My
Hope Instagram is smart enough to
recognize that if they throttled all of
their users and the only way to get
views was to pay for it well then all of
a sudden we would all be seeing content
that is really bad because it's not the
best content based off engagement it's
the best content based off who has the
biggest wallet and so we would leave
Instagram like if that was their
business model Instagram would be dead
within like 3 months 6 months Max so I
don't think that's something that
they've done and in fact Instagram CEO
Adam Ma has flat out addressed this and
said no we we haven't done that that's
that'd be dumb of us if we shadowban
every single one of our users now I
talked about in a recent episode why
these views are down but to summarize
basically it's supply and demand the
average demand which is how much time
people are spending on Instagram hasn't
really changed much from 2022 to 2023
it's pretty much the same but the
average number of reels shared per month
has increased by 30 to 90% depending on
your number of followers and so that
means 30 to 90% more Supply with an
equal demand that means that the number
of views to go around just aren't there
they're very limited and that's probably
the biggest reason why views have
significantly declined in 2023 now with
all this being said I will leave it up
to you to decide if you have been
shadowbanned if your account is broken
if you have had a violation that's up to
you to decide I can't tell you that but
what I can tell you is that probably
you're not Shadow ban probably you're in
the 99% of people who isn't but
regardless let's talk about how to fix
it what do you do next what are the
solutions number one check your account
status you can do this by going to your
Instagram profile then going to settings
and then going to account status and you
should see three or four little green
check marks here and that just indicates
that your account is in good standing
you have had no recent violations or
nothing that Instagram is reporting that
is affecting your account negatively if
you go to check your account status and
you do see a violation you do see a post
that was flagged a comment that was
taken down you might not have even
noticed it delete it delete the post
delete the content delete the story
delete the comment whatever it was make
sure that that is removed from your
profile once that is removed and even if
that isn't removed even if you were in
good standing the next thing that you
should do is take a break this is great
for your mental health this might be a
great opportunity for you to dive deeper
into your business or maybe get a a
fresh look on Instagram but really take
a one to two week break no comments no
posts no stories no nothing just turn
off you know delete the Instagram app
turn off your phone whatever you got to
do set it down for 1 to two weeks to
allow your account to basically reset
number four stop using any sort of
inorganic growth including Bots
including any paid services that promise
you followers including anything that I
mentioned earlier as a possible uh no no
on Instagram stop using them and even
consider logging out of Instagram
everywhere you're logged in often times
and you can find this in your Instagram
settings you won't even realize it but
you've been logged in at dozens of
different computers dozens of different
devices and phones and so it's possible
that someone was taking actions on your
account that you weren't aware of it's
also possible that some of these old
logins are just bogging down your
Instagram and also it's an account
security risk right you you could
possibly be hacked um or have your data
stolen if you're logged in on some
public library computer that anyone can
access so make sure you stop using any
sort of bots or inorganic growth methods
and then also just make sure that you
log out of any unnecessary devices the
fifth thing that you can do to hopefully
fix a shadow ban remove these account
violations and get your account trending
in the right direction is to change up
your hashtags use a completely different
list or just don't use any hashtags at
all like give your Instagram a break
from the hashtags because oftentimes
using the wrong hashtags can confuse the
algorithm basically hashtags are telling
the algorithm hey here's what my post is
about and so if the algorithm thinks
your post is about surfing and you use
all these hashtags that are about
accounting well then you're going to
confuse the algorithm it's not going to
know who to show your post to so maybe
stop using hashtags alt together the
sixth thing that you can do and this
sucks to hear but this is honestly
probably the most important thing that I
can tell you and if you're to soak up
only one uh tip or phrase from this
entire entire podcast today is that you
need to re-evaluate your content are you
making content that feels like an
advertisement are you making content
that doesn't feel like it's native for
Instagram like it kind of looks like it
was just repurposed on Instagram are you
making content that truly solves a
problem or a is a concern that your
followers know that they have big key
here they have to know that they have it
rather than just something that you want
them to have or problem that you know
that they have but they don't know that
they have yet there are thousands of
different criteria that can affect the
quality of a post but ultimately at the
end of the day this is not the sexy
thing to say and I know you're going to
hate hearing this if your content is not
good enough it will not be seen if your
content is good enough it if it is of a
certain quality it will be seen it will
get engagement and it will reach the
right audiences the seventh thing you
can do this is not foolproof but it has
worked for some people is you can try to
contact Instagram you can either go to
your settings and go to the help window
in order to report a problem or if you
are metav verified then you have access
to the metav verified chat where you can
chat with a real person who works for
Instagram and Facebook and you can reach
out address some of your concerns you
can share some of the problems you've
been having and hopefully they'll be
able to guide you in fixing those
account issues again this is not
foolproof it's not a perfect system but
if you're someone who is just really
bogged down you feel like your account
is great you feel like your content is
great you have no violations no
Community guidelines and you just don't
know what's going on you could try
reaching out to them and see if they can
maybe find something that's broken
within your account or just help you get
your account on the right track speaking
of though my final tip or solution for
you is to consider starting a new
account now there are various reasons
for this and in fact I did an entire
episode just about a week or two ago on
whether or not you should start over and
not just whether or not you should but
what should you do once you do start
over on Instagram so I highly recommend
checking out that account but for many
people it's just an issue of your
account's been around for too long maybe
you had a violation a couple years ago
and you're still being bogged down
because of it maybe you did something
inorganic like you bought followers and
2015 and now you're just your account
still can't grow maybe your arch nemesis
from high school targeted you with some
bot attack and they flagged your post or
they had hundreds of people reporting
your content for no apparent reason and
now that's hurting your account there
are so many things so many variables
that could come into play over years and
years of using Instagram so especially
if you're someone who has been doing
this for a while if you've been doing
this for let's say more than a few
months you've been doing this for a few
years and you just you still feel
shadowbanned you still feel like you
can't grow you feel like you've watched
the entire episode today and and you
you've checked off every box everything
I'm saying you're like yeah I know I did
that I checked that off nothing's
working then you might want to consider
starting a new account but before you do
I really highly encourage you to watch
that other episode because that will
really give you everything you need to
know consider and think about when
deciding whether or not to start a new
account hopefully I'll see you in that
episode and don't forget to
[Music]
subscribe